In this module, we speak quite a bit of
time learning about how to communicate
the results for analysis to other people.
We consider our audience and we explored
how we can use data to tell the right
story and make our pitch for
what actions we should take in the market.
More often than not, we find ourselves
preparing specific materials for
using the presentation.
For better or worse, the business world
is largely driven by slide presentations,
although we do have the opportunity to
use other formats from time to time.
In any case, there are a few
structural principles you should
be familiar with as you
construct your materials.
We'll speak in terms of slides, but
many of them are applicable
to other media as well.
We'll start with the principle that
goes completely counter to what is
generally taught.
Specifically that the presentation
is not about you.
It's about the problem
you're trying to solve.
In public speaking or for presentations
at conferences or other large venues,
it's generally accepted that slides
are only there to support the speaker.
Consequently, they should be sparse,
concise,
and perhaps have only a few bullets or
simple diagrams.
There's certainly no need for
a presentation to stand on its own.
However, I'd argue that 90% or
more of the presentations that we actually
do in the real world rely on the slide
deck as the focus of the conversation.
And moreover,
it serves as an artifact that can
be taken away by the participants.
It's therefore much more likely that the
slide deck will need to stand on its own
without requiring talk over.
Naturally, this means our slides need to
contain a bit more information than they
otherwise would.
At the same time, we want to
avoid cramming our slides with so
much information that they
can't be easily understood.
As you might imagine, there's definitely
an art to making slides easy to interpret
and allowing them to
tell a complete story.
The need to construct slides in this way
is one driver behind the 5 minute rule we
introduced earlier in the course.
By way of review,
the 5 minute rule suggests that
each slide in the presentation will
occupy about 5 minutes of time.
This accounts for the time required for
the audience to absorb the information as
well as overall discussion and questions.
In terms of overall slide deck
preparation, another principle
we can apply is a variation on
something called the pyramid principle.
The pyramid principle
suggests that writing and
thinking can be structured to nest
supporting ideas under one common point.
As we move toward the base of the pyramid,
there are more granular
structures of supporting ideas.
Let's consider our analytic process and
the types of discussions we're
likely to have through that process.
Presenting a various levels,
developing strategies and tactics for
action with our colleagues, and ultimately
pitching our ideas to decision-makers.
Here we see a similar pyramid.
Our executive is primarily
interested in the main point and
maybe the first level of support.
Next-level leaders often
want a bit more detail but
may not want to walk through
every step of analysis.
And the working team maybe
interested in everything.
If we're smart, we can construct one
layered set of presentation materials that
satisfy the needs of all these groups.
For example, we may construct a detailed
deck that has our entire process with
analysis, results, and
actions laid out in order.
We develop and
use this deck in our working sessions.
We then prepare a shorter summary deck,
typically 10 to 15 pages, which we
can use with mid-level leadership.
In this presentation, we have our
longer deck available as an appendix.
Finally, we construct a very short
executive summary, perhaps three to
five pages, which captures the key
recommendation and main supporting points.
In our executive readout, we include
the mid-level deck as an appendix, and
we keep the larger deck in our back pocket
in case we have any detailed questions.
You might also notice that if we do this,
we have some very natural materials
to use in 30 minute, 60 minute, and
longer meetings,
consistent with the 5 minute rule.
So far, we've talked about
slide presentations as a whole.
Let's spend a few minutes discussing
two principles that speak to how we
may arrange facts or
statements in our presentations.
The first is called the rule of three.
The rule of three is essentially
the observation that we as
humans find things grouped in threes
more appealing and more compelling.
Three is also a minimum number of elements
required to establish a pattern, and
we implicitly pick up on that.
The simplest way to apply the rule of
three in slides is to make sure that if
we're using bullets point on the slide,
we have at least three of them.
If we only have two things to list,
we should probably consider just
combining them into a single point.
This principle also applies to visuals and
diagrams.
Images grouped in threes tend to
be more appealing to the viewer.
Another way we use the rule of
three is in providing options.
It turns out that people also like to have
at least three options to choose from and
will often end up choosing the one
that's in the middle, so to speak.
A pretty common trick is to present two
options that we know people won't like
along with a more palatable one
we actually want them to pick.
However, it turns out that while
we like to have enough options,
we have all sorts of problems when
presented with too many choices.
There's are a ton of behavioral search
out there that shows how we can become
overloaded and can make bad decisions in
the presence of too much information.
One of the foundational ideas in this
research is based on a paper published by
psychologist George R Miller in 1956
titled The Magic Number Seven Plus or
Minus Two, Some Limits on Our Capacity for
Processing Information.
The common interpretation of Miller's
research is that on average,
people can hold about seven items in their
short term memory, give or take a couple.
Sometimes this is referred
to as Miller's Law.
What this means for us is that we should
probably limit any list of items we want
people to retain mentally to
somewhere between five and nine.
And as a practical matter,
fewer is probably better.
Some research even suggest that certain
tasks become more difficult when as little
as five elements are involved.
That having been said,
we are writing these things down,
so we're not always asking people
to remember the list itself.
So its okay to include
longer list on our slides.
But if we're walking through a set
of ideas in a presentation, and
we want people to stay with
us from slide to slide,
we should keep this
cognitive limits in mind.
So to summarize, the upshot of listing is
that having three to five items is better.
Fewer is bad, four is risky but
okay in some cases.
The last principle we'll discuss is that
when it comes to preparing presentation
materials, quality and
attention to detail matter.
Right or wrong, your audience will
implicitly use the quality of your
materials as a proxy for
the quality of your analysis.
If your deck is sloppy, they'll tend
to assume your analysis was sloppy.
A prestine deck won't sell
your analysis by itself, but
it can certainly help show
you you're on your game.
This is particularly important if all the
people in the room are not friendly, so
to speak.
The last thing you want to do is give
anyone a reason to take you off track.
Luckily, there are some things you can
do to help make sure your deck doesn't
become a distraction.
By far, the most important is making
sure your numbers are correct.
I've seen many presentations get derailed
quickly by a typo in a key value or
a calculation.
One bad number can immediately call into
question every finding of your analysis.
While less critical, it goes without
saying that things like spelling and
grammar should be checked thoroughly,
especially if there are any names or
titles listed in the presentation.
Other ways your deck can signal
quality are a bit more subtle.
A lot of them have to do with
consistency and formatting.
There are many perspectives of how
a deck should be formatted, but
we'll provide one perspective here and
outline some rules that we follow.
At a minimum, they should get you thinking
about how you want to signal quality with
your materials.
First, use a standard or
at least consistent slide template.
The presentation should have the same
look and feel all the way through and
flow as though it were prepared
by one person, even if it wasn't.
Second, use a consistent font, and
ideally, a consistent size for
similar types of text across slides.
Bullet points at the same level
should use the same font and
the same bullet format throughout
the slide presentation.
Third.
If possible,
try to have charts, graphs, and
tables using the same style and colors.
And at minimum, make sure that
if you use a specific color for
an idea on one slide, use the same color
for the same idea on another slide.
Fourth, slide title should be in
the exact same position on each slide.
Bullets should start the same distance
from the left-hand side of the page
across slides.
Fifth, never stretch a picture and
change its aspect ratio,
it almost always looks bad.
And finally, use spacing for
visual appeal.
Try to balance content on the page and
visually separate ideas.
This may seem like a lot of work for
something that's largely administrative.
But like most things, the more you do it,
the more natural it will be, and
the more efficient you'll become.
Preparing slide materials is not glamorous
work, but if it helps you get your message
across more clearly and efficiently with
less distractions, it's time well spent.
So to wrap up, let's quickly review
the principles we learned in this video.
We learned that more often than not,
the presentation is not about you.
Allow your slides to stand on their own.
We reviewed the 5 minute rule,
which helps you size your deck to
the time you have for a meeting.
We saw how the pyramid principle can
help us structure a set of presentation
materials for multiple audiences.
We discussed the rule of three and the
magic number seven plus or minus two and
how they can be used to enumerate
discussion points or decision options.
Finally, we emphasize the important of
quality in our slide presentations and
provide a number of specifics rules and
checks for developing high quality decks.
With these ideas in mind, you'll be
well-prepared to deliver your pitch and
get the outcome you want
from your presentation.